npm init -y
npm install express mongoose cors dotenv

express :  The Web Framework.
    The Analogy: Think of Node.js as the engine of a car. Express is the steering wheel, pedals, and dashboard.
    Node.js by itself is just a runtime—it knows how to execute JavaScript , but it doesn't know how to handle web requests easily. Express simplifies everything.
    Without Express: We would write 50 lines of complex code just to receive a request.
    With Express: We write app.get('/status') and we are done. It handles the routing (URLs) and the responses.

mongoose :   The ODM (Object Data Modeling) library.
    The Analogy: The Translator and Bodyguard for our database.
    MongoDB is very flexible; it lets us save anything (even bad data). Mongoose enforces rules (Schemas).
    It translates our TypeScript code (Order.create(...)) into MongoDB commands.
    It acts as a bodyguard: If we defined that an Order must have an email, and you try to save one without it, Mongoose will block it and throw an error.

cors : (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) , A Security Middleware.
    The Analogy: A Visa / Border Control.
    Browsers have a strict security rule. They do not let a website on one port (our React app on port 5173) talk to a server on a different port (our Backend on port 5000).
    If we don't install this, our React app will try to fetch data and the browser will block it with a big red "CORS Error."
    app.use(cors()) tells the browser: "It is safe! I (the server) allow this React app to talk to me."

dotenv : An Environment Variable Manager.
    The Analogy: A Private Safe for our secrets.
    We have sensitive data, specifically our Database Password inside that MongoDB connection string.
    We never want to write our password directly into our code files (index.ts). If we share our code or push it to GitHub, hackers will see our password.
    dotenv allows us,  to write the password in a hidden file called .env. The library reads that file and loads the password into the app securely, keeping it out of our main code.


Install TypeScript & Dev Tools These tools help us write TS and restart the server automatically : 
    npm install -D typescript ts-node nodemon @types/node @types/express @types/mongoose @types/cors

nodemon : (Node Monitor) A tool that automatically restarts our server whenever we save a file.
    The Analogy: It’s like "Hot Reloading" (HMR) in React, but for the Backend.
    Without nodemon, the backend workflow is painful:

    We change a line of code (e.g., change "Sold Out" to "No Stock").
    We save the file.
    The Server does nothing. It is still running the old version of the code in memory.
    We have to go to the terminal, press Ctrl+C to stop the server.
    We have to type npm run dev to start it again.
    Repeat this 1000000 times a day.

    With nodemon:
    we change the code.
    we save.
    nodemon sees the file changed and instantly restarts the server for you.

    In our package.json, we added this script:
        "scripts": {
            "dev": "nodemon src/index.ts"
        }

        This tells nodemon: "Watch the src folder. If any file changes, kill the current server and restart index.ts immediately."

    typescript: The language compiler itself (turns TS into JS).

ts-node: A helper that lets Node run TypeScript files directly without compiling them manually first.

@types/...: These are "dictionaries" for TypeScript. Since libraries like Express were written in normal JavaScript, these packages tell TypeScript what the types are (so we get autocomplete!).

Initialize TypeScript Config :
    npx tsc --init
 this create : tsconfig.json

Find the line // "outDir": "./",.
Uncomment it (remove //) and change it to: "outDir": "./dist",
change : "verbatimModuleSyntax": true, to : "verbatimModuleSyntax": false,

npm install -D @types/dotenv


mongoDB : 

Phase 1: MongoDB Atlas
    This is the server that lives in the cloud.
    Go to the website: Open mongodb.com/atlas and click "Get started".
    Sign Up: Create an account (or sign in with Google).

    Create a Cluster:
        You will see a page asking to "New Project"
        and then  : "Create a cluster".
        Select  Free (the free tier).
        Choose a provider (AWS is fine) and a region close to you (e.g., Frankfurt or Ireland if you are in Israel).
        Click "Create". (It takes 1-3 minutes to build).
        Security Setup (CRITICAL STEP):
        Username & Password: It will ask you to create a database user.
        Username: admin
        Password: password123 
        Click "Create User".
        Connect to Cluster0
        Connecting with MongoDB Driver

        in mongoDB compass : 
            add connection : 
                copy the connection from atlas : 
                    mongodb+srv://admin:webPassword@cluster0.lmffzt4.mongodb.net/?appName=Cluster0 




